=Concerto remote test run environment=

==general idea==

The general idea of *Concerto remote test run environment* is to make it possible to insert Concerto tests hosted on remote servers into external websites.

It means that in practice there can be a Concerto server located somewhere in the world and though your website is located on a remote host you can still run the tests from that server as if the Concerto instance was installed on the same host as your website.

----

==the package==

Concerto has a dedicated package just for that. Here is the structure of the package:

 * */css* - directory with images and css files
 * */nusoap* - directory with PHP class for creating and consuming web services ( http://sourceforge.net/projects/nusoap/ )
 * */Compatibility.js* - javascript compatibility file for IE
 * */Concerto.js* - javascript Concerto class
 * */concerto.jquery.js* - jQuery Concerto plugin
 * */concerto_client.php* - Concerto web service consumer
 * */jquery-1.9.1.min.js* - jQuery library
 * */jquery-ui-1.10.1.custom.min.js* - jQuery UI library
 * */jquery.json-2.3.min.js* - jQuery JSON plugin
 * */moment.js* - javascript time formatter plugin
 * */QTI.js* - Concerto javascript QTI class
 * */SETTINGS.php* - setting file for Concerto remote test run environment

----

==installation==

 # download the package
 # extract it's contents to the directory located inside your website root folder
 # link following CSS files in your HTML *head tag*:
  * *{{{<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/QTI.css" />}}}*
  * *{{{<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/jQueryUI/cupertino/jquery-ui-1.10.1.custom.min.css" />}}}* - you can ignore this if you have full jQuery UI CSS linked with this version or higher
 # include following JS file in your HTML *head tag*:
  * *{{{<script type="text/javascript" src="jquery-1.9.1.min.js"></script>}}}* - you can ignore this if you already have jQuery with this version or higher included
  * *{{{<script type="text/javascript" src="jquery.json-2.3.min.js"></script>}}}*
  * *{{{<script type="text/javascript" src="jquery-ui-1.10.1.custom.min.js"></script>}}}* - you can ignore this if you already have full jQuery UI with this version or higher included
  * *{{{<script type="text/javascript" src="Compatibility.js"></script>}}}*
  * *{{{<script type="text/javascript" src="moment.js"></script>}}}*
  * *{{{<script type="text/javascript" src="Concerto.js"></script>}}}*
  * *{{{<script type="text/javascript" src="QTI.js"></script>}}}*
  * *{{{<script type="text/javascript" src="concerto.jquery.js"></script>}}}*
 # edit */SETTINGS.php* file and set two variables:
  * *$ws_url* - URL to Concerto server test run environment (must and with slash)
  * *$ws_password* - password for remote access to Concerto server  

----

==usage==

Now you can just use this javascript code somewhere on your website:

*{{{$(selector).concerto(options);}}}*

... where *{{{selector}}}* is jQuery selector, for the test container, e.g.:

*{{{$("#divTest").concerto(options);}}}*

... means that we want to place the contents of the test inside container with id *divTest* on your HTML. The second variable *{{{options}}}* is required options object you want to pass to Concerto object. It contains the following fields:

|| *name* || *description* || *default* || *example* ||
|| workspaceID || specifies id of the workspace you want to run the test from || null || 1 ||
|| testID || specifies id of the test you want to run || null || 1 ||
|| sessionID || specifies id of the session you want to resume || null || 1 ||
|| sessionHash || specifies hash of the session you want to resume || null || 1af3577e1445c4c35ff3cabd0a36255a ||
|| params || object containing additional parameters you want to pass to the test, it's the same as adding additional URL parameters when running the test through regular test run environment || { } || { var1: 128, var2:'concerto' } ||
|| WSPath || path to */concerto_client.php* file from the package || "client/concerto_client.php" || "client/concerto_client.php" ||
|| loadingImageSource || source of the default loading image used in transitions between test HTML templates || null || "image/loading.png" ||
|| callback || to be called whenever there is response received from Concerto server || function(response) { } || function(response) { alert('response received'); } ||
|| resumeFromLastTemplate || used only when resuming session, if set to true it will just show the last template shown in the session and will wait for user input || false || false ||

One option from the table needs some more explanation. It's the *{{{callback}}}* option. You should set it's value to a function accepting *{{{response}}}* object as a argument. The argument object will contain data returned from the Concerto server.

Here are couple of fields from *{{{response.data}}}* object with it's possible usage:

|| *name* || *description* || *usage* ||
|| TEST_SESSION_ID || unique test session id || can be stored by remote website to implement session resuming mechanism ||
|| HASH || test session hash || can be stored by remote website to implement session resuming mechanism ||
|| FINISHED || is 1 if session is finished or 0 if session is ongoing || can be used in custom session resuming mechanism to mark session as not resumable ||

===full example===

<code>
   $(function(){
      $("#divTest").concerto({
         workspaceID:1,
         testID:1,
         callback:function(response){
            if(response.data.FINISHED==1) alert("test is finished");
         }
      });
   });
</code>

----

==limitations==

There is no built in session resuming mechanism. You have to implement your own. It can be achieved by using *{{{workspaceID}}}*, *{{{testID}}}*, *{{{response.data.TEST_SESSION_ID}}}*, *{{{response.data.HASH}}}* and *{{{response.data.FINISHED}}}* variables.