#labels Featured,Tutorial
.
=Concerto v3.0 Tutorials: _Frequently Asked Questions_=

_This document is relevant to Concerto v3.0 and higher. If you have an older version installed, it is recommended that you upgrade to the latest version (or else refer to relevant manual)._

If you don't see the answer to your question on any of our pages, please feel free to *[mailto:vm298@cam.ac.uk?cc=mk583@cam.ac.uk email us]* and we will get back to you as soon as possible.

===What is the best way to learn to use Concerto?===
Working with Concerto v3.0 can be fairly easy if you are well oriented with the user interface. The easiest way to get started is to go through the tutorials in our [http://code.google.com/p/concerto-platform/wiki/Resources?tm=6 Resources section]. Following this, try to upload a few simple tests using the techniques that you have already learnt. 

===How much does it cost?===
Concerto is an open source project so anyone can use it free of charge.

===Can I try out Concerto without downloading the full package?===
Yes, you can [http://concerto.e-psychometrics.com/demo/cms/index.php create a Basic account for yourself] on our server just to trial the platform. Please note that the Basic account should not be used for actual data collection etc. You should download Concerto onto your own server for actual work or check out [http://www.psychometrics.cam.ac.uk/ our hosting services] for various alternatives! 

===Can I develop tutorials for Concerto?===
Of course! We are very happy to expand the list of available tutorials. Please *[mailto:vm298@cam.ac.uk?cc=mk583@cam.ac.uk contact us]* if you would like to help the Concerto user community by developing tutorials. Have a look at our [http://www.psychometrics.cam.ac.uk/page/345/contribute.htm Contribute to Concerto section] for more ideas!

===Do you conduct workshops regarding Concerto and related subjects?===
Yes, we conduct workshops on adaptive testing, item response theory etc in-house and across the globe. Please check our [http://www.psychometrics.cam.ac.uk/page/29/trainingworkshops.htm website] for more information on upcoming workshops. 

===Can Concerto handle only _alternate-choice_ (e.g. yes/no) items?===
No, Concerto is flexible enough that you can develop tests with virtually any response format. E.g. multiple choice, likert scales, open text, heat maps, flash games and even trace mouse movements. More advanced response options may require some basic knowledge of web design. 

===Can reaction times be recorded? If so, to what precision?===
Yes, reaction time can be measured using the timer (time_left) function. Further, it can also be recorded with very high precision (almost to 1 millisecond). Such precise measurements would require basic javascript coding knowledge as we don't have that functionality built into concerto, currently. _It has been added to the list of features for the new version._

===What is the nature of your subject pool?===
Concerto does not have a specific sample pool for people to register. It is a testing platform and not a test administration service. You can create your test on Concerto and then invite your subjects to respond to it. 

===Where are the tests published? What does the entry point look like for the candidate who is taking the test?===
When you create a test on Concerto, you have a simple URL that can be emailed, tweeted or posted on a social networking site. E.g. the URL to the Simple test is http://concerto.e-psychometrics.com/demo/?tid=61. Some people/organizations embed the test in their website/blog.

===What support is available?===
For more information on support and services that we offer. Please refer to the [http://www.psychometrics.cam.ac.uk/page/386/hosting--support.htm Hosting and Support section]. If you have other requirements that are not mentioned here, [mailto:vm298@cam.ac.uk?cc=mk583@cam.ac.uk contact us directly].

===Can the custom data table concept be used to effectively create a login page for test candidates?===
Yes, you can easily create a login page by storing necessary information in a table. We plan to add, in the near future, an inbuilt authentication system for Concerto tests.

===Are there any tutorials on creating MCQ items?===
There are no specific tutorials on MCQ, but you can use the simple tutorial and add as many response options as you want to create multiple choice questions. Radio buttons should be named the same, with different values for each response option in the group.